(dramatic foreboding music)
(dramatic foreboding music continues)
(bats chittering)
(dramatic foreboding music)
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
(dramatic foreboding music)
(bats chittering)
(tense dramatic music)
- [Interviewer] So knowing
what you know now.
would you still get cursed?
- That's a good question.
Honestly. I don't know.
(tense dramatic music)
- You're literally begging the devil
just to prove to you that God's real.
(tense dramatic music)
- There's evil people.
there's evil energies.
and if you're playing around with that.
you'd be lucky to make it out alive.
(Elias laughing)
- This is gonna be fun.
(tense dramatic music)
- Y'all better not call me at
two o'clock in the morning
talking about this man's dead.
I don't want to hear that.
(tense dramatic music)
(dramatic music)
(air whooshes)
- We live in an age of staggering advances
in science and technology.
To our predecessors of
just a few hundred years ago.
much of the world today
would be indistinguishable from magic.
but we might not be so far removed
from the old world of gods and superstition
as we might think.
80% of people in the U.S. identify
as either religious or spiritual.
Three out of four Americans
believe in some form of the paranormal.
and similar figures are reflected globally.
Is belief in the supernatural
simply a remnant of an evolutionary trait.
or is there a deeper
and more profound truth
to the nature of consciousness
that we've yet to uncover?
(dramatic music)
I've been making documentary films now
for more than 20 years.
It's a career that brought me to the U.S.
over a decade ago where I met my wife
and now have a happy
little family with two cats.
(gentle music)
In my work. I've been lucky
enough to film in some exotic
and often remote places around the globe.
(gentle music) (water spattering)
Something that caught my imagination
is that everywhere I've traveled.
lying just below the surface
of our seemingly modern world.
there's a persistent undercurrent
of belief in the spirit world.
(gentle music)
I can't help wondering.
"Why are we so hardwired to
believe in the supernatural?"
Surely it's all superstition.
That's when I stumbled on an unusual idea.
what would happen if I
willingly asked someone
to put a curse on me.
(eerie dramatic music)
(siren wailing) (eerie dramatic music)
- Hello.
- Hey!
- How are you?
I'm good. did you find
anyone to curse you yet?
- (laughs) No!
- Ever since I met you.
I've known that you're
curious about this kind of stuff
and you're always wanting
to explore the unknown.
What kind of curse?
What would it be supposed to do?
- That's a really good question.
I don't know what type of curse either.
- Do you get to choose or
they just do something bad
and then you find out what it's gonna be?
- I don't know. I mean.
and will anyone curse me?
Because I'm guessing it's probably a first
for people I'm gonna speak to.
and then there's a question.
well. how much do I believe?
- You want to believe.
I'm a skeptic. but you're
the Mulder to my Scully.
You want to believe? (chuckles)
- I do.
So when I moved to the
U.S. I pretty much came here
with two suitcases. one with clothes.
and one was this case of memories.
basically full of old photographs
that I have me in my rock climbing days.
What really got me was finding this.
I got this book when I was
around 10 or 11 years old.
and I was obsessed with this.
It's called "The Unexplained:
Mysteries of the Mind.
Science. and Space. and Time"
has all sorts of things in it
from the history of Stonehenge.
Even some of these UFO stuff
is being talked about
in Congress right now.
so it's a real hot topic.
But what really excited me
and what really captured my imagination
when I was a kid was this.
"In search of the sixth sense.
ESP. extra sensory powers."
To me. this was magic.
I see references to Dr. Rhine
of the Rhine Research Center.
and what's wild to me is
that in just a few weeks.
I'm gonna be going to
the research center myself.
And I don't know that 10-year-old me
could have ever imagined
that I'd be doing this.
So I think the fact that I saved this book
as one of my most important memories
from when I was a child
says something about me.
and I guess why I'm
doing any of this at all.
(dramatic music)
It may sound surprising.
but this sprawling city of angels
is considered one of the
best cities in the country
to be a witch.
With many practicing covens. healers.
tarot readers. and magical stores
for all manner of witchy supplies.
(dramatic music)
And I've made contact
with the well-known coven here
in the hope that they can introduce me
to their world of magic.
So tell me. what is this
space and where are we?
- This is our temple up here.
This is where we do our ritual.
and it has to double as a classroom
because of the space that we have.
And it's actually. it's
a good space for that.
- This is probably gonna sound crazy.
I am interested in finding a curse.
dark magic. a hex to put on myself.
- So he's looking?
- To curse himself.
- To be cursed.
- Yes!
- We could curse you with stupidity.
but we think you've got
that down. (all laughing)
- Well. because that's a dangerous idea.
I mean. once something like that hits you.
undoing it could take a
lot more than you think.
And sometimes when you're in the throes
of something like that.
you don't even realize that you are.
- You are putting into action.
a spirit that's gonna stalk you
and find ways to deliver.
- Why did you choose that as the thing
that you wanna see manifest?
Do you feel like that's
the only real magic.
or do you feel like
that's the strongest way
to experience magic?
- I think it's that.
I think it's the strongest
way to experience.
Going into this.
that maybe I wondered if magic
was more in the mind of the believer.
and so therefore I felt
that maybe it wouldn't affect me
if I personally didn't believe in it.
- Well. the problem is.
is that just from our conversations today.
I mean. we're having a conversation
and you're getting a different perspective.
Reality is starting to get
more windows and doors in it
to where a year from now
you may be suddenly dealing with a curse
and you're completely
engaged in that universe.
You completely have a sense of it's real.
- And then It could really take you down.
- Well. I've certainly
got a lot to think about
before I go further on this journey.
but I would love to see
what your spell crafting looks like.
Could we perhaps do something
that can help me on my journey
to find magic in some way?
- I mean. magic in some way is to say.
to open a spirit for
the encounter of magic.
- Mm-hmm. yeah.
- And that we can do.
- Preferably without
you having to be cursed
to experience it.
- Yeah. seriously. dude.
You suddenly become a
doorway into the realm of magic.
you could get in trouble.
(dramatic foreboding music)
Well. basically we're
gonna do a witches ladder.
and this is your witches ladder.
so I'm gonna ask you to participate.
- Okay.
- I'm gonna ask you to get
a very clear idea of that state of wonder.
a changing reality that
suddenly opens its doors to you.
And at the end. I'm probably
gonna ask you to then.
(breathes). dump your
breath into the last knot.
- Okay. cool.
- Okay?
Here we go. (eerie dramatic music)
Light and dark are turning.
look at me into the burning.
look at me into the burning. (indistinct)
This cauldron of witchery is
consecrated to the old ways.
we shall embark upon the spell.
I conjure by the knot of one
to begin a witch's ladder.
our work be done. (breathes)
I conjure by the knot of two.
that it hits its mark and strikes true.
Witch fire is starting up.
This is a good sign for the work.
Conjure by the knot of three.
as we show will.
I conjure by the knot of four. yes.
to open wide the flaming door.
I conjure by the knot of five.
that our spell shall live.
I conjure by the knot of six.
I conjure by the knot of seven.
a spell in the stars.
it be writ on Earth as it is in heaven.
I conjure by the knot of eight.
that it be fulfilled by the hand of fate.
(breathes sharply)
I conjure by the knot of nine.
this spell is mine. this spell is mine.
(Liam breathes deeply)
By witch's breath. thy will shall be.
and through the flames. I set you free.
(tense dramatic music)
- So it's done.
- Done.
it's a short spell. (laughs)
(indistinct)
(tense dramatic music)
- There are many forms of witchcraft.
In actual fact. if you
have a room full of witches.
you're probably gonna have more opinions
than the number of people in a room
because everybody has a
very personal approach to it.
And my understanding of witchcraft.
a commonality that we share.
is that we all have a relationship
with the invisible world.
with the realms of spirit.
And that would include
the realms of divine spirits.
other people would call the gods.
We're all working outside of the construct
of organized religion.
So we're not mediating
to spirit through priesthood.
we're having our own
personal direct relationship.
which effectively means we're heretics.
(dramatic music)
- If witchcraft is to be believed.
the witch's ladder spell
will open doors for me
to experience and encounter with magic.
And despite the warnings.
I still have my sight
set on finding a curse.
So I'm heading to a city famous
for its history of voodoo.
(tense dramatic music)
Celebrated for its festivals and nightlife.
New Orleans is just as well known
for its long association with magic.
And I'm hoping I've come to the right place
in search of a curse.
But it's hard to separate
the myths of voodoo
from its authentic practice.
So first. I'm seeking out an expert
to find out just what is voodoo.
- That's the question. right?
What is voodoo mean? (laughs)
And some people say it
means spirit or divinity.
deity. you know. we
have a concept called ashe.
which is the divine.
sacred energy of things.
Everything has ashe. this chair has ashe.
the crossroads has a space. has ashe.
and we celebrate the ashe in ourselves.
and also outside in the
wild world where we find it.
To me. that's what voodoo really is.
It's sort of an understanding
that everything is interconnected.
There's so many misconceptions
about voodoo that it's.
I mean. I think people hopefully
are coming to terms things like. you know.
that it's not all negative.
that it's bad. that it's dark.
I think people understand
that like voodoo dolls
aren't really a thing.
they understand that
zombies aren't really a thing.
On the other hand. it also does have things
that are very centered on curses and hexes
and what people would
think of as negative magic.
But what I say to people is.
if you knew your partner or
your child was getting hurt.
would you retaliate.
would you just sit there and do nothing?
You know. you're gonna try and resist
and stop them from getting hurt
with whatever you have at your disposal.
And we have this very powerful magic.
(birds chittering) (gentle dramatic music)
- [Liam] Witchcraft. like all religions.
is complex. and oftentimes contradictory.
And I now know curses are
practiced in this tradition.
So I've reached out
to a well-known voodoo priest
in the hope that they might be receptive
to my search for dark magic.
- Greetings. welcome.
- Thank you.
- Wash your hands for me and come on in.
- Okay. absolutely.
- It's a bit of a blessing.
- Thank you.
- And a slick way to get
some sanitizer on you.
And welcome to the
House of the Divine Prince.
- Thank you so much.
- This is my sacred space.
This is my ministry room. if you will.
You see Santeria in this room.
you see Lucumi in this room.
you see Ifa in this room.
and certainly you see
Voodoo present in this room.
- One piece that I've noticed
is this piece down here.
Could you tell me a little bit about that?
- You need to be careful with that.
Stand up.
- Okay.
- This is a spirit double.
it's a warrior. if you will.
So he handles all the bad things
that I can't do in the spirit realm.
And each of those nails
represent a successful mission
for which this deity has operated.
This piece has done some
powerful things for me.
And so I keep people away from it.
- So can you tell me the sorts of things
that people come to you looking for?
- They look to be blessed.
they look to be cleansed.
they look to be protected.
I channel the ancestors.
I channel loa. orisha deities.
and certainly I need the head of the client
to be active in the ritual.
So I can't do something to you. you know.
that you're not willing to accept.
- This might sound an unusual request.
but I'm interested in finding a curse.
a hex in some way.
Not to visually prove anything on camera.
but personally prove to myself
that I can experience something.
- Makes no sense to me at all.
You're looking for a
curse to validate what?
And so a positive thing. a blessing.
a miraculous thing won't do that for you.
it has to be a curse.
- A positive thing feels like
it could just be something
that happens on day to day.
whereas something more like a curse
might be more out of the unusual
and something that would validate
for my own personal belief.
- As a Black man in America.
I feel the exact opposite.
I deal with the curse every day.
I go through hell every day.
People are calling me
and contacting me for help.
who are cursed every day.
The norm is to be cursed.
And so it sounds.
without being disrespectful.
almost entitled.
- That's a good point.
and I don't mean to
make light of it at all.
I feel like I'm looking for something harsh
so that it can grab my attention
and give me some
understanding of what it is
that may be beyond
this materialistic world.
- I can't tell you how dangerous that is.
And what you're opening yourself up to.
losing everything.
Oh. I'm about to sound
like an evangelical Christian.
You're literally begging the Devil
to knock on your door.
just to prove to you that God's real.
There are rules to our universe.
And even before it comes outta our mouth.
it's gotta be in our consciousness.
So the universe has
already heard your request.
- The position that you see the world from
is not something that's very
easy for me to be able to see.
We need to experience things for ourselves.
and that's what I'm doing.
I'm looking for a personal experience.
- My fear at this point
is that the wheels are in motion
because it doesn't matter what you tell me.
you've already released that.
and I can only accept
that you absolutely believe
what you're saying. scares me.
A curse could end your life.
then what are you proving?
I'm dead now. but wow.
now I know that there's
something really beyond this.
Ooh. y'all better not call me
at two o'clock in the morning
talking about this man is dead.
I. I don't want to hear that.
I don't want to hear that.
(eerie dramatic music)
(eerie dramatic music continues)
- [Ali] Hey. how are you doing?
- Hi. Ali.
We've been having a tough little
bit of a tough time out here.
I'm struggling to convince anyone
of my. of my meaning and my intention.
- [Ali] What's happening
when you talk to them?
- Well. there's been a lot of push back
in terms of. you know. making me consider
how much more fortunate I am
than a lot of other people in the world.
- [Ali] Yeah. I mean.
I guess I can get why.
if you just. you know. say
it's like a personal journey.
"This is the journey I'm on."
those kind of sound like
buzzwords to people. you know?
- [Liam] I think I need
to find a better way
to articulate why it's important to me.
because it is sincere.
And I think that if I go out there and say.
"Hey. I'm looking for a blessing."
and I walk down the street
and I find a $10 note.
I feel like that won't change my mind.
it won't be the validation
that I'm looking for.
- [Ali] Are you nervous at all
that if you do find someone
who's willing to curse you.
like what that will actually be like?
- [Liam] You know. I
don't know what to believe
about any of this stuff anymore.
I think at the beginning of this.
maybe I was more skeptical
as the days have gone on.
I'm not sure what I think anymore.
(dramatic music)
Should I really be
concerned about being cursed.
and is there any actual evidence
that magic could real?
Thankfully. there are those
who are studying the science
of this phenomena.
Founded 50 years ago
by Apollo 14 astronaut.
Dr. Edgar Mitchell. the
Institute of Noetic Sciences
is one of the leading
centers for the investigation
into the power of human consciousness.
- What we study are
exceptional experiences.
that's our euphemism.
But that means mystical
experience. psychic experience.
and other kinds of
transformative experiences.
- What are the goals of the
Institute of Noetic Sciences?
- We have a working hypothesis
that all minds are interconnected.
And so part of the goal is to test ideas
that would either confirm
or deny that hypothesis.
Mostly we end up confirming it.
And of course. this is part
of the esoteric traditions
that go back as far as humanity goes.
And we're trying to
apply the tools of science
to better understand what apparently
the ancients knew quite well.
- So I'm particularly interested
in the idea of force of will. magic.
and does thought intention
really affect the world around us?
- So in the laboratory.
that kind of experiment is looking is thought about
as a mind matter interaction.
Does the mind. is the mind able to change something
that is physically
measurable at a distance?
Well. the answer is yes.
Of the largest single class of studies
involve random physical systems.
We're talking about electronic
random number generators.
So you ask somebody while
the bits are being created.
that simply will more ones to come up
or more zeroes to come up.
And so after 50 or more
years of doing experiments
as part of a laboratory test. that works.
So we take all of that
and we then are address the question of.
"Well. does force of will work?"
In the real world.
I would say the affirmations. magic spells.
and all the rest. they do work.
but usually they don't work
at anywhere near the same speed
as what we see in the laboratory.
- [Liam] Traditional
witchcraft practitioners
believe their spell crafting
can affect the world around us.
And now scientists are finding evidence
that the human mind can
affect digital systems in the lab.
One of the largest
experiments on the subject
was conducted by the
Global Consciousness Project.
The group placed random number generators
around densely populated cities
to see if the thoughts and emotions
of large groups of people
could skew the machine's readings
away from a 50-50 chance
of being a one or a zero.
especially during major world events.
(tense dramatic music)
The data recorded on these machines
around the events of September 11th
showed significant
deviations that for many.
suggest evidence of a unified
field of human consciousness.
I've asked magical practitioners
if they would. in some way.
give me a negative spell.
or that would could be a curse or a hex.
What's the likelihood from
some of your experience
that whether I believe or not.
I could still be affected in some way?
- You could still be affected
purely for psychological reasons.
that once your unconscious.
has the notion that somebody's
putting a curse on you.
it could do serious damage.
And that can push your physiology.
it could do all kinds
of interesting things.
And if I found somebody
who did want to harm
using this method. I would walk away fast
because what else are
they thinking? (chuckles)
I just don't wanna be
around people like that.
(tense dramatic music)
- My search for dark magic
in New Orleans isn't over yet.
I've made contact with the practitioner
who actively practices negative magic
for what he sees are
many legitimate reasons.
- Hi. Elias.
- Hello.
- Good to meet you.
- Good to meet you too.
- Yeah. absolutely.
Wow. this story is incredible.
- [Elias] Thank you.
- [Liam] New Orleans is
known very much for voodoo.
but what is your practice?
- I practice hoodoo and witchcraft.
I have a couple of other
associations to other traditions.
but people call me all types of things.
They call me conjure-man.
they call me a witch.
they call me a magician.
they call me a priest.
but to me. it's the same thing.
- I'm interested in finding out
about the world of curses.
- For sure. we could
definitely have a conversation
about curses.
- All right. where do we start?
- We start right now with the reading.
- [Liam] Okay. great. let's do it.
(dramatic music)
- Why a curse and not something else?
- It's hard to explain.
I feel like I want to push the boundaries
of my own experience
as far as I can take them.
Does that make sense in terms of
do practitioners such as yourself.
do you push boundaries
for your own experience?
- Yeah. I do understand it.
I think that you're making agreements.
You're saying in exchange
for more knowledge
and insight of these
esoteric spiritual concepts.
I'm willing to put myself
in the face of danger.
which to me is partly
brave. partly stupid. (laughs)
which is. that's kind of
like the best. best things in life
kind of come from that kind of mix
of stepping out without
feeling like you fully have a net.
So tarot cards are just a tool.
Really what I'm doing
is speaking to spirit.
I'm asking specifically about
any work that we may do.
how that would affect you.
So wherever the magician
card comes up in the reading
is where magic enters the picture.
where magic interests
the chat. right? (laughs)
So anyone who has eyes to see
and understands even a little bit of art
can see how the colors
changed a little bit here.
and how the mood has
changed after the work is done.
So we're going from the Magician card.
to the Three of Pentacles.
The Hangman. and then the shadow self.
It looks like you have
a relatively positive life.
It looks like you have a lot of love
and a lot of opportunity.
You are going to cause a
little bit of damage to that.
You'll get what you want though. (chuckles)
You'll get an experience
and you'll get your questions answered.
You are being represented
as the emperor moving forward.
What I see is transformation.
your idea of yourself changing.
But I think the crux of
what the cards are saying.
you're opening a door
that you are consciously saying
you want to be negative.
down a negative path.
to explore what's behind it.
and you're gonna find that.
and it's gonna have detrimental effects
on things that are already
positive around you.
- Right.
- According to. and I'm sorry.
but that's what this...
- Yeah.
that's what the cards say.
The cards as they are right now.
And if I would still like to
move ahead with the cursing.
are you still open to the idea of doing it?
- Yeah. but now it's
more entertaining. (laughs)
(eerie dramatic music)
So today. we're going to
be doing creation of a charm
to be effectively a curse.
We're going to be first tying you
to one of these coffin nails.
So some of your hair.
we're gonna tie it to the coffin nail.
This should slow you down a little bit.
making it more difficult
for you to accomplish things
that you hope to accomplish.
And then repelling people
who could otherwise be
of assistance to you away from you.
So. (chuckles) sounds fun?
(indistinct)
- Okay!
- Yes. let's do it.
- Let's do it.
- Okay.
(Elias sighs deeply)
- Ancestors. those who sacrifice
blood. sweat. tears for our very existence.
I'm calling you.
We are asking you to be here with us.
We are asking for your love. your wisdom.
your direction. your insight in our lives.
Yet again. ancestors. those who sacrifice
blood. sweat. tears for our very existence.
we are calling you.
we are asking you to be here with us.
(Elias laughs)
Nothing to worry about
that will scare you too bad. yet.
But it shall come to pass.
thou will not harken
unto the voice of the Lord.
thy God to observe. to
do all his commandments
and his statutes. which
I command thee this day
that all these curses shall come upon thee
and overtake thee.
The Lord shall smite thee
with a consumption and with a fever.
with an inflammation. and
with an extreme burning.
And thy shall pursue thee until thy perish.
And thy will...
We don't want all that. or do we? (laughs)
The Lord shall make the
rain of the land powder
and the dust from the heaven
shall come down upon thee
until thou be destroyed.
The Lord shall smite thee
in the knees and in the legs.
Moreover. all these
curses shall come upon thee
and shall pursue thee and overtake thee
till thou be destroyed.
He shall put forth a
yoke of iron upon thy neck
until he'll destroy thee.
(tense dramatic music)
(Elias breathes sharply)
Ancestors. he has asked for this
in favor of his experience.
his desire to know and to learn
and to grow in his own spiritual practice.
I ask that you give this to him.
but you did ask for this.
- I did ask for this. yes.
- Okay.
- Even if you didn't wear this.
it's still connected to you.
(gentle ominous music)
And this is doom oil.
Doom oil is death unto my enemy.
It comes from a pot called Nganga.
and then Nganga is African necromancy.
So first comes nightmares.
random feelings of dread. confusion.
fogginess of the mind.
and then comes sickness.
inability to sleep. and then comes loss.
You're gonna have to catch it
somewhere along this process.
- Mm-hmm. before it gets too far.
- Mm-hmm. and if you
don't do what's required.
everything that's
spoken is what's intended.
(eerie dramatic music)
(air whooshing) (eerie dramatic music)
(Elias laughing) (eerie dramatic music)
- There you go. (eerie dramatic music)
- So we've done it?
- Mm-hmm!
- Feels heavier than I thought.
- Wonderful. it's gonna
feel heavier and heavier
and heavier and heavier
like iron around your neck.
Like it was said.
if you really want to see if it works.
then don't take it off.
(Elias laughing)
This is gonna be fun.
- How do you feel after doing this?
(Elias sighs) (eerie dramatic music)
- Evil. (eerie dramatic music)
- Wow. that must be quite seductive.
- It is. but that's the
power you're calling on.
the devil. right?
Quite seductive. (eerie dramatic music)
- And now it's with you.
(eerie dramatic music)
(eerie dramatic music continues)
- So a curse could happen to a person
whether they believe it
or even know about it.
because the magic is affecting
the quality of spirit in their world.
If you don't have a strong
sense of self-identity.
no strong sense of personality.
rather you simply follow
the energy around you
as it presents. then it doesn't matter
whether you believe in it or not.
you're gonna feel that quality of spirit
that's being manipulated around you.
and it's gonna take you down a path
that's gonna be negative.
- I think there's a
danger of doing something
that is harmful to you.
harmful to those around you
who might not be protected.
There are. as I said. there's evil people.
there's evil energies in the universe.
And if you're playing around with that
and you don't know what you're doing.
then you'd be lucky to make it out alive.
- So have you ever seen or experienced
the effects of dark magic?
- Oh yeah. when they broke into my house.
One person. I knew
exactly who the person was.
While I'm gone. he pushes
the air conditioning in.
and breaks into my house.
But then he went to the
altars. that was the mistake.
And he stole very
expensive liquor off the altars.
consecrated items off the altars.
I immediately called every
elder that I knew in town.
"This isn't about retribution.
this isn't about my desire
to wanna do some kind of dark magic.
I cannot protect him.
He violated my shrine. I can't protect him.
"You've got to get him to bring that back."
Seven days later. he's dead.
(eerie dramatic music)
- Okay. Liam. you can hear me?
- [Liam] Yes. I can hear you.
- Great. you can go
ahead and open the shutter.
- [Liam] Okay. the shutter is open.
For the last few months.
I've heard from those who practice magic.
Now. I'm meeting with parapsychologists
whose research into mind over matter
includes the study of spiritual healers.
I want to know how might
spiritual healing occur.
and should I be worried
about the opposite. dark magic?
After all. I'm now officially a cursed man.
(eerie dramatic music)
- When I was a kid.
my family was very open
to the type of phenomena
that we study here.
different sorts of healing.
My mother was a healer. it
was a family type of thing.
And then when I was in my 20s.
I found out the Rhine
Research Center existed.
It was a place where they
had scientifically studied ESP.
PK. and different phenomena
that I was interested in.
Well. a lot of years later. in 2009.
I joined a research team
and started working here.
When people think of
the term parapsychology.
they think of a lot of different things.
Many people think of
Bigfoot or Loch Ness Monster.
or you know. chasing down UFOs.
And those are very interesting topics.
not what we study in parapsychology.
Parapsychology is actually a science
that studies five very specific phenomenon.
One being telepathy. mind
to mind communication.
another. clairvoyance. getting information
about objects or events that are hidden.
Third area is precognition.
getting information through time.
We group them together and call them ESP
or extra sensory perception.
In addition to ESP.
we also study psychokinesis.
mind matter interaction.
The fifth area is survival studies.
Survival studies includes everything
from near death experiences.
out of body experiences.
past lives or reincarnation.
So those are the five areas
that parapsychologists study.
(dramatic music)
This is a photo multiplier tube
that measures really low levels of light.
People naturally produce
very low levels of light
in the ultraviolet range.
And so what we're looking for in here
is to see if when people are doing healing.
meditation. martial arts.
or any sort of psy activity.
whether there's any change
in the light level from them.
And so that's what this
machine is designed to do.
We take people who say they're healers.
we don't test to make sure they're healers.
People do that in other labs.
people who do medical work are doing that.
What we do here is we're trying to say.
"What is the mechanism behind healing?"
All right. Liam. we got a great baseline.
Do you wanna go ahead
and start your meditation now?
- [Liam] Okay. start the meditation now.
(dramatic music)
So you can see we
started the active session.
and we had one spike that
went up to 12 from the baseline.
which was under seven beforehand.
We just had one spike that went up to 12.
that's a nice difference.
but we like to see a little
bit more than just one.
So we'd like to see if we get any more
of those throughout
the active session here.
The baseline is typically about
12 to 20 photons a second.
We see that number jump to 80.
It's four times the baseline.
statistically very large.
But we also see people
go into the hundreds.
into the thousands.
You don't need statistics
to figure this out.
There's something unusual
going on in the lab there.
Well. it was pretty much
a flat baseline throughout.
- Okay.
- But there was a slight variation.
- Mm!
- And if you look
at the graph over here. you can see.
as soon as you started. we
saw this jump up to 11 or 12.
Now. normally we would wanna
see multiple jumps like this.
So I wouldn't consider this
a really strong indication.
but it's a start.
- Okay. (John laughs)
- If this bio-energy.
if this ultraviolet light
that comes from people is
being used as a carrier wave
to transfer information between people
and allow healing to
occur in another person.
perhaps that's what
we're finding in our lab.
This is where we are right now.
looking at healing in the
field of parapsychology.
(dramatic music)
- [Liam] If people
have this ability to heal.
do you think that people have the ability
to do the opposite of that
and put a curse on someone.
for example. and make them ill?
- I. I don't understand.
why would you let
someone hurt you purposely?
Anyone who is able to affect
someone in a healthy way
may also be able to affect
them in a negative way as well
and hurt their health.
No one wants to put
themselves in harms way.
Why would you actually let someone do that?
That would be a dangerous thing.
I know you have
something else in mind here.
- Yeah. no. no.
Well. you know. I'll put
the cards on the table now.
I have been around people
who have suggested they have that ability.
- Of course!
- And I have asked them
to potentially do that to me.
(laughs)
- Okay. (laughs) how you feeling? (laughs)
- [Liam] I'm in the
middle of that right now.
- Okay. if you need some help. let me know.
I'm not kidding.
(eerie dramatic music)
- Several weeks after
Elias put a curse on me
and I started to get some
pretty unsettling dreams.
the most recent really shook me up
and left me feeling just anxious all day.
(tense dramatic music)
(latch rattling) (tense dramatic music)
I think I need to get
some advice on the dangers
of what I'm potentially doing to my psyche.
- I noticed you're not wearing the curse
around your neck right now.
- So I was told that it's at its strongest
when I'm wearing it around my neck.
But either way it's attached to me
and doing its work regardless.
Within about 3 to 4 weeks of
going through that experience.
I did start to have some very bad dreams.
dreams that were more
violent. more sinister.
I had a dream in which
I was being held captive
or something was going to.
was going to torture my cat
and make me watch it.
The only way to stop this from happening
was would be if I had
tried to put my cat to sleep
to stop him suffering.
And that dream
really. really got to me.
- I'll bet. (chuckles)
- Yeah.
That was one of the moments.
particularly when I felt.
maybe this stuff is getting to me.
For me. seeking out something like this.
seeking out curses.
what are the potential
psychological dangers for me?
- Well. I think some of them
you've experienced already. right?
The anxiety and. right.
some sort of some fear that's come up.
I think those are kind of natural.
normal. right. suggestions.
They bypass the rational mind.
They go right to the subconscious.
bypass the rational mind.
and then they influence.
not only your expectations
and your perceptions.
but your behaviors without
you being aware of it.
In my estimation. the danger is that then
it just takes over and
everything becomes a negative.
everything becomes a problem.
And what you did was you went out and said.
"I'm gonna lean into
the negative right now."
And so how far do you take that?
At what point is there
enough anxiety for you.
enough bad dreams for you.
enough things for you to make a choice
to lean into the positive?
- [Liam] As upsetting
as they may have been.
I don't think my violent nightmares
are enough to convince me
of the existence of magic just yet.
So I've decided to go further.
I'm seeking out another
curse from a place known
for some of the oldest
recorded teachings of magic
in the world.
(upbeat dramatic music)
Perhaps this is tempting fate.
but I keep my curse with me
as I travel to a place known as.
"The Land of Black Magic."
(dramatic music)
I am traveling to the village of Mayong
in the very northeast of India.
Perched on the banks of
the vast Brahmaputra River.
Mayong's traditional way of life
shrouds its rich history of magic.
witchcraft. and even human sacrifice.
Its unbroken lineage of magical teachings
have passed on through the generations
for hundreds of years.
Today. it's illegal to perform dark magic.
and the practices are shrouded in secrecy.
Luckily. I have an old friend
who's a seasoned journalist here in India
and he's agreed to help me find
some of India's elusive
magic practitioners.
(dramatic music)
- Mayong is not a small place.
It must be in the. maybe in the 50. 60. 70s
square kilometers area.
And Mayong is pretty much the epicenter
of all black magic in this country.
So this place where we are at here today
is a temple which has been around here
for hundreds years now.
And it's a primary location
where people come to cleanse themselves
of any black magic that's
been carried out on them.
- How difficult is it going to be
to see some black magic
practice for ourselves?
- It's banned by Indian
law. it's very difficult.
People are very scared
to even talk about it.
forget even showing you.
It's not going to be an easy task.
The practitioner here.
he helps remove the black magic on you.
So somebody may cast a spell on you.
he removes all of those spirits.
He says he'd be able
to clean that out for you.
- Tara Baba is one of India's
mystical tantric practitioners
who are said to hold the
ability to weave together
both our physical and supernatural worlds.
I'm hoping to learn more
about the power of this ancient practice
before I seek out a dark magic experience.
- [Liam] They're your friends?
Ah. so this is possession
of a djinn.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah!
- [Liam] I'm shaken by the
scenes of a real life exorcism.
(patient screaming)
Whether or not it's evil
spirits or simply belief
through the power of suggestion.
either way. I'm reminded just how fragile
and susceptible our minds
can be to these dangers.
especially if we go looking for them.
(eerie dramatic music)
(fire crackling) (eerie dramatic music)
The spiritual practice of Tantra
is of course much more than witchcraft.
First recorded in the 6th century.
its teaching suggests
everything in this material world
is interconnected and infused
with divine feminine power.
My obsession with finding dark magic
seems aligned with an
important tantric principle.
that by actively engaging
with our spiritual obstacles.
such as desire and fear.
we can learn to overcome them
and become interwoven
physically and spiritually
with all that surrounds us.
(dramatic music)
Tonight is an important Hindu festival.
and at temples across the country.
there will be large celebrations
in honor of Lord Ganesh.
It's an important opportunity
to find some local magic practitioners.
To help me navigate the festival.
I'm meeting with local guide
and wildlife photographer. Champak.
- [Liam] As the evening
celebrations get underway.
our team makes an important connection
with this secretive tantric
who agreed to perform a dark magic ritual.
but only in the remote jungle.
The local tantrics have advised us
not to venture into the wild
with this unknown practitioner.
But my time here is running short
and I'm determined to experience
a dark magic ritual for myself.
- Right.
- Okay!
- That's what he said to you?
- Will there be weapons?
- That's. I guess that's new information.
- Then we can't come back down.
- No!
- Seems very isolated.
- Right.
- Right. I guess we sleep on
it and just see what we can do
'cause I don't wanna
go home and not get it.
but I'm certainly not
gonna put anyone at risk.
- Yeah! (eerie dramatic music)
- [Liam] India's spiritual
devotees awaken early
to begin their daily prayers.
It's a place where both
life and death is celebrated.
(dramatic music)
This is our final day here.
our last chance to find authentic magic.
(dramatic music)
So despite the warnings.
my crew and I have
decided to meet the tantric.
willing to take us to his
place of spiritual practice
deep in the jungle mountains.
(dramatic music)
With packed supplies.
we begin the mile and
a half ascend to a cave
where he will call upon
his goddess. Chinnamasta.
It seems fitting that my journey
to find light from the dark
has led me to Chinnamasta.
the goddess of both life and death.
of destruction and recreation.
the goddess of contradictions.
(tense dramatic music)
As we near our destination.
we cross a ring of brush fires.
I'm told they won't burn
much past the dry leaves.
Maybe it's just the curse
already attached to me.
but I can't help but that
our options for escape
are being choked off.
(tense dramatic music)
The tantrics prepare the sacred space
with offerings to the gods
as we await nightfall.
Tonight. the tantric here is going to try
and invoke the spirit of Chinnamasta.
- Yes.
- And that spirit
is gonna judge upon us.
- [Liam] As the night finally draws closer.
the tantric focuses his mind.
ready for tonight's ritual.
Before I have a chance
to question the choices
that have led me here.
I'm summoned into the sacred space.
- Liam. come. come here.
- [Liam] Never before
has my fate been so literally
in the hands of the gods.
(eerie dramatic music)
(eerie dramatic music continues)
- Feel good. feel relaxed.
- Mm-hmm. yes.
- Mm-hmm?
- Mm-hmm. feel relaxed.
- [Liam] I'm not sure what I was expecting.
Perhaps the goddess herself
would rise from the flames.
But real magic isn't a stage show trick.
- I feel good. I feel strong.
- Yes. yes.
- Mm-hmm. yes. I do.
(eerie dramatic music)
- There have been times
in my life when I found clues
that we may all be connected universally
and spiritually in a way
that's hard to intellectually define.
I'm starting to realize that
my search isn't for a curse.
I'm looking for a door.
for a gateway to the divine.
something that I've experienced before.
(eerie dramatic music)
There was one big event in my life.
I had a big climbing accident.
- Yeah. I know you told
me about that before.
- So I was climbing a big
route back home in the UK.
I got right to the top.
and then my foot got stuck in the rock.
I realized I hadn't placed enough gear
in the rock as I went up.
What that means is
I would probably hit
the ground if I fell off.
It was terror. absolute terror.
because I had to get my foot
out of the rock that was stuck.
And the minute my foot came out.
my hands came away. and I fell.
I just remember putting
my hands over my eyes.
I just remember thinking. "I'm gonna die.
I just don't want to
see it when it happens."
This is where it gets strange.
I went from the most
fear I've ever had in my life
to feeling an in incredible.
incredible sense of bliss.
I felt so at peace
in a way that was just incredible.
Just to this day. it makes no sense.
By luck. I didn't hit the
ground. and I was like.
"I'm alive." (chuckles)
I felt like I touched something
that wasn't on our normal natural level.
And I don't know what that is.
I dunno what it was.
and it bugs me. (chuckles)
It bugs me that it makes me feel
like this stuff I don't understand
or I'm not prepared to look into.
I know this won't make
sense to most people.
like. "Why would you do this?"
I almost want to experience the darkness
to know that there is a light.
And I think that's what I'm looking for.
(eerie dramatic music)
(dramatic music)
I now know that if I
want to prove to myself
that my climbing fall experience was real.
I can't be afraid to put myself in danger.
So I'm seeking out the most
dangerous magic I can find.
I've come to Catemaco in southern Mexico.
a beautiful and deeply spiritual city.
Ironically. it's most famous.
not for its revered Catholic church.
but as a mecca for
witchcraft. (dramatic music)
The city's rich tradition of shamanism
dates back to the
ancient Olmec civilization
and it's still home to many
male and female witches
known as brujos and brujas.
Every year. a festival is held
along the shores of Lake Catemaco.
a gathering of the areas
many witchcraft practitioners.
Crowds in their thousands will come to see
the spectacularly dressed
shamans parade through the city.
(shamans speaking in foreign language)
- [Liam] A celebration
of their deeply respected
magical practice and history.
And for many visitors.
it's a chance to meet with the brujos
to seek out a magical spell
in search of better health. fortunes.
or maybe something more nefarious.
And of course. I'm here
to meet one of the brujos
still seeking a spiritual experience
through the power of dark magic.
(eerie dramatic music)
(Juan speaking Spanish)
(leaves rattling)
(eerie dramatic music)
- Hola!
- In the Christian religions.
they say that Satan is a
negative and evil person.
Why is it that you feel
that that's not the case?
- So I'm looking for something
of an unusual request.
I'm looking for someone
to put a curse on me.
Is that something that you could do?
- What are the potential
things that could happen to me
once I make this request?
(Liam speaking Spanish)
(eerie dramatic music)
- [Liam] I already have
one curse attached to me.
but something in my gut is telling me
there's still more to experience.
So tonight. Juan has invited
me to a satanic Black Mass.
I'm told this is the first step
in making a pact with the devil.
(horn honking) (eerie dramatic music)
(metal clattering) (eerie dramatic music)
(chicken squawking) (eerie dramatic music)
(eerie dramatic music) (horn honking)
(tense dramatic music)
(tense dramatic music continues)
- So tonight was pretty
intense to see and be a part of.
It's hard to talk about the emotion.
the sense of the feeling you get.
the energy level that you get
when you're in an environment like that.
The music. the smoke. the fire. the drums.
it's all building up inside of you.
and it creates a really powerful energy.
And I can see why that
puts you in a state of mind
that could make you more
susceptible to believing.
or some would argue that it puts you
in a state of mind more open to receive
and to connect with the spirit world.
So tonight. in theory. I
opened up this dialogue.
this conversation with Satan.
But that's just the first part.
Tomorrow. we're going to Satan's cave.
Juan says it's where he has a more powerful
and direct connection
with the spirit world.
And there. I'm going to
enter into a pact with Satan
to put this curse upon me.
I think how this one is different
and how the game has changed
is that in this scenario.
I have to write down exactly
what it is I want to occur.
So I'm not asking to test
somebody else's power.
I'm actually requesting
a curse upon myself.
I'm entering a pact with Satan
to request a negative thing.
an illness. an injury. or even death.
I want to give this a serious attempt
at experiencing something supernatural.
But is it supernatural
or am I just using my
own mind against myself?
I have to think very carefully
about what I write in this pact.
What I'm requesting is so extreme
that I don't even want
to share it with anyone
because there may be
some very real consequences
to what I'm doing. and
whether magical or psychological.
I guess I'll have to wait and see.
(tense dramatic music)
(bats chittering)
(dramatic music continues)
- Satan. this is my request to you.
and I humbly offer it to you.
(eerie dramatic music)
(indistinct)
(tense dramatic music)
(bats chittering) (tense dramatic music)
- Do you see a correlation
or any connection
between the power of suggestion and magic?
- Certainly. after being in Mexico
and making that request on myself.
I do wonder if that even took
the dreams up another level.
Certainly I feel the idea of
me looking over my shoulder
and being more wary of situations
has definitely ramped up.
the feeling that maybe you just need to be
a bit more cautious right now.
- Do you regret having done it?
- I genuinely have one big fear
that I may have done some
physical damage to myself.
We know that science has proved things
like the placebo and nocebo effect.
and our minds can have physical effects
on our bodies when we believe.
My feelings about regret might be different
if I was to find out
that my medical results
show up a problem that I
didn't have six months ago.
(dramatic music)
So mountain biking is definitely one
of my biggest passions in life.
There really is nothing
like getting down the trails.
shredding. having fun.
And I gotta admit. since
going to New Orleans.
getting a curse.
and then coming outta the cave in Mexico.
it's put me off riding and
that's been getting me down.
So I've decided to put
that behind me right now.
I gotta get out on the
trails. have some fun.
and just stop thinking
about all that stuff. you know?
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
(chains rattling) (Liam grunting)
- [Rider] Dude. are you okay?
- Ah. my knee. argh...
- Yeah...
The hospital X-ray showed
nothing was broken. thankfully.
but I had a pretty deep
cut that needed stitches.
The swelling to the
knee was pretty extensive
and took five or six weeks
to try and get myself
walking properly again.
Even when I tried to get away from it.
my mind's haunted by curses.
Where your attention
goes. your energy flows.
and I fear I'm becoming a danger to myself.
(tense dramatic music)
(Liam grunting) (tense dramatic music)
What is strange though is
I checked out the footage
from Elias' curse and where
he got specific shocked me.
- The Lord shall smite thee in the knees
and in the legs. (laughs)
- [Liam] Is magic real.
and if so. where does it come from?
- Magic is the fact
that you are an animate
creature existing currently
who is conscious enough
to ask the question.
That is magic.
So yes. magic is real as that.
It's not wrong to go
out and seek experiences.
There is value in it.
but you have to. you have to. be careful
'cause all those things. all those things are true.
all those things are very. very true.
(eerie dramatic music)
- It is been several months now
and the dreams are just getting worse.
I'm barely sleeping at the moment.
and the sense of anxiety
that I wake up with
carries on with me throughout the day.
I feel paranoid all the time.
Even sitting in traffic.
I keep thinking that
every car's going to hit me.
Every time the phone rings.
I think that something bad has happened.
and it's just this constant sense of dread.
(dramatic music)
Maybe it's connected to my lack of sleep.
but I have this physical feeling
that something bad is coming.
(tense dramatic music)
- How long do you wanna
remain the cursed man?
- I think I've had enough.
- Was it the dreams where you
said I've had enough. exactly?
Or was it the accident or the anxiety?
- As the odd little things
that are more physical are happening.
it's chipping away at the
armor of it's all in your mind.
And I feel like if I don't try
and maybe undo this some way.
whether or not magic is real or not.
I might be finding and forming
some real negative habits.
- So what has stopped you so far
from releasing yourself from them?
- I don't know whether or not it's gonna be
as easy to do as just that.
I think now I'm in a tricky position
where if I perhaps
didn't believe in magic.
and yet somehow it's
got into my subconscious
that now I'm actually
going to have to believe
in order to get myself out of this.
(siren wailing)
Despite your warnings-
- Yes?
- I have found not one.
but two people who were
prepared to put a curse on me.
- See. this is why they
wonder of us as Brits.
they think we're crazy.
- Right. but I can't imagine why.
- And I feel like I'm getting
a laundry list of things
that are starting to go wrong.
I have brought with me a couple of clips
from the things that have been done to me.
- We're going to be first tying you
to one of these coffin nails.
So some of your hair.
the Lord shall smite thee
with a consumption and with a fever.
and with an inflammation
and with an extreme burning.
and they shall pursue
thee until thy perish.
The Lord shall smite thee in the knees
- God...
and in the legs. (laughs)
And he shall put forth a
yoke of iron upon thy neck
until he had destroyed thee.
- Wow.
- Damn dude! (chuckles)
- So that was about six months ago now.
and there's certainly been
some things happening to me.
- Did it start happening in your dreams?
- Yes. now I'm having pretty severe
nightmares now actually.
- You haven't lost any limbs
or anything since though. right? (laughs)
- No. about five. six weeks after
that happened to my knee.
I had to have stitches in the knee.
- Okay.
- That's nasty.
- It doesn't stop with the
knee though. it goes on.
- If you don't cut this short.
this can get really bad...
- It's gonna start
to get very physical.
- Yeah.
- Perhaps I should have stopped there.
I found a brujo in Mexico
who aligns his work
specifically with Satan.
He told me that I had
to write down the request
and I would petition that request to Satan
at a very special place.
I did that. and it was bound in blood.
- Binding with blood
doesn't make it easy to undo.
(tense dramatic music)
- Satan. this is my request to you.
and I humbly offer it to
you. and I thank you for it.
- Oh he marked you.
This one is something that
you got marked and you got.
and you petitioned. so...
- For a life. not just the curse.
but this is gonna be your life from now on.
was basically what I was hearing.
- Problem here is you're approaching it
like a party trick.
and so therefore that
very action is disrespectful.
And for that. you may get. you may get a slap.
or we may have a fight on our hands.
To be honest. just so you know.
going into trying to undo this.
you are gonna have to find faith in this
in order to undo it.
You're gonna be the key to undoing it.
- Okay. (dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
- Okay. you ready?
- I am.
- All right. come with me.
- One is thine. three for thee.
nine is mine. (dramatic music)
One for the land and one for you.
One for thine.
three for thee. and nine is mine.
Psychic protection.
- And as each person comes in.
you are going to give them one coin each.
Three for thee. and nine is mine.
(dramatic music)
Accept your payment.
Nine is mine. (dramatic music)
- I accept your payment for this work.
(dramatic music)
We are grouped here
together to close contracts
for Liam. legitimate reasons.
I think he was a fool.
but we are here to undo it.
(tense dramatic music)
I call upon my gods. Croman.
hear the blood in my veins
know the oaths I have
made on the ancient altars.
I call to the watchers.
black spirits and white.
red spirits and gray.
mingle. mingle. mingle. who may.
felt out. out. out around and about.
a world within and a world without.
the good. stay in. and the ill. stay out.
(dramatic music)
- Two curses have been placed upon Liam.
The first was made to be undone.
In the service of Liam.
I now in this moment.
(sickle clattering)
sever. this curse. hmm bound tight.
(dramatic music)
Unravel and clean.
Take it apart. shred it.
get it all broken up.
Here. take the sickle. cut some threads.
cut the fabric. get it removed. severed.
give blessings to the one that served you.
Know that it has done its job.
(tense dramatic music)
- Thank you for giving me this experience.
But I'm glad that it's ended.
This is over and it is done.
(tense dramatic music)
- The next one is harder.
(wand rattling)
Coven tread.
(ritualists pagan chanting)
- I call to you fallen angel.
the contract now he
asks be brought to close.
the knowledge he has gleaned
he knows to be true.
and through this work that he is doing.
he will share this
knowledge with the world.
For this. he asks that
recognition of this pact
be completed and laid down.
Look into the mirror
and speak to that completion.
Do you know it to be true. Liam?
- Yes. I know this to be true.
I recognize the power.
I have had enough.
- You are ready.
- I am ready.
This is completely over. it is done.
I am finished with this.
- Do you see that day
that you were in that cave
and you made this pact?
- Yes.
- Push. push. you feel the pact?
- Yes. I feel it.
- You see him before you.
- I can see him. yeah. I felt that energy.
- Do you feel it now?
- I can feel it. yes.
- Now. sever them tethers.
Sever them. one by one.
Rip them to shreds.
- I have severed these tethers.
I've severed these bindings.
- With honor and respect.
- Feel it all that is bound in you
now be bound within that mirror.
- Use your breath.
(Liam breathes deeply)
- Again.
- Roar. roar. (Liam roaring)
- Roar! (Liam roaring)
- Yes.
- Come on. push.
- Push it! (Liam roaring)
- Into it. and seal. (Liam roaring)
(ritualists pagan chanting)
- Yes!
- Done?
- Done. put it in.
Hands upon the rim of the cauldron.
(ritualists pagan chanting)
- That's done.
- Push! (metal clattering)
(ritualists pagan chanting)
There is no other contract.
Everything has been laid down.
Now. shred this and put it in.
- [Liam] Contract is done.
- Push! (metal clattering)
- [Griffin] All honor and respect.
I return what you gave me.
- With all honor and respect.
(ritualists pagan chanting)
- [Griffin] Down!
(eerie dramatic music)
Witches use your eyes.
let the sight be true.
Ah. there it went. finally. it's done.
Everyone okay?
(indistinct)
- Done. done. done. and done?
- [Ritualist] Done!
(ritualists singing pagan prayer)
- Liam. stand up.
Head bowed. hands out.
(ritualists singing pagan prayer)
And the root.
(dramatic music)
- So it's been six
months since I got cursed.
- Six months?
- I've now been cleansed.
- How do you feel?
- I'm feeling much better.
- Really?
- Yeah.
starting to sleep better.
- That's good.
- This is the one thing.
I think this thing has been weighing
on my mind a little bit.
I finally got the results
from my doctor's checkup. my blood work.
And I haven't opened it yet.
I'm a little nervous right now. (chuckles)
- You really?
- Yeah.
Okay. so we screened for some
cancers that are in my family.
(dramatic music)
and the screenings are normal.
- That's good. so how do you feel?
- I mean. honestly. that's a real relief.
- You were worried about that.
- Yeah.
- I didn't know it was
weighing on you that much.
- Yeah. you know. with
the dreams and everything. I was.
I suddenly felt scared of what.
I might have done and what
that would mean for you and us.
And I was beginning to worry
I might have made a big mistake.
(dramatic music)
- You're okay?
- Yeah. it's all good.
- Yay.
- There's not. there's no. nothing bad.
- Good. (dramatic foreboding music)
- I think magic is definitely real.
I don't know if it's quantifiable.
that's a different thing.
and then what are we measuring it with?
But it is demonstrable. it's a effective.
In a way. I almost wanna define it
the same way I would define culture.
like that complex whole
that makes up a person.
- The root of magic is
the ability to wield free will.
We use our free will to
bring about specific change
in the future through actions today.
So our relationship to divine spirits
is a lot more dynamic than most people have
in other religious systems.
- Can we do. and have we done things
that are pretty incredible?
Absolutely. but I don't have a magic wand.
I'm not going to fix your life overnight.
particularly if you are not invested.
They're not considering their role.
their accountability. their responsibility
in the life that's manifested for them.
- So what would I say to
people who think that it's evil?
Go back and challenge every thought
that's been pushed on you as a person.
Your mind is your reality.
And so what you decide to let in
and what you decide to let go of
will then shape the world around you.
(dramatic music)
- [Liam] I went searching
for the secrets of magic.
and I found that our mind shape our reality
in ways that perhaps still
beyond our understanding.
Maybe I just want to believe
that that kind of sounds like magic to me.
(eerie dramatic music)
(tense dramatic music)
(dramatic upbeat music)
(ritualists chanting)
(ritualists sing pagan prayer)
(eerie dramatic music)
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-